feat(blog): 5.1.0 release blog (#1849)
expressjs/expressjs.com: _posts/2025-01-09-v5-1-latest-release.md

| 4.x   |         |        | 2025-04-01 | 2026-10-01 or later |
| 5.x   | 2024-09-11 | 2025-03-31 | 2026-04-01 | 2027-04-01 |
| 6.x   | TBD after 2025-10-01 | | | |

As you can see, this means that v5.1.0 being tagged `latest` indicates that we moved from `CURRENT` to `ACTIVE` which
starts the clock on EOL for v4 by moving it to `MAINTENANCE`. We recognize that v4 is a special case having been the
only major version for most of the history of Node.js itself. Because of this, we want to remain flexible and also
provide a bit longer support. We want to do what is best for the ecosystem, so consider these goals not commitments.

---

## Finally, what changed in v5.1.0

This release primarily focused on tech debt from supporting so many old Node.js versions and other things that stagnated but were not landed before v5.0.0 went out.

### Express 5.1.0 Main Changes

* Transitioned all remaining dependencies to use `^` ranges instead of locked versions
* Add package.json funding field to highlight our OpenCollective 
* Added support for ETag option in `res.sendFile()`
* Added support for adding multiple links with the same rel with `res.links()`
* Performance: Use loop for acceptParams

> **Full Changelog**: [https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0](https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Changelog v5.1.0](https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0)
```
Last nitpick this link name overflow on mobile devices so keeping it short 

![Screenshot_20250331-063239_Chrome](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d69a732e-c8c2-43d6-9948-bce43974c12e)

### Proposed Schedule

For the existing release lines, we will set the following phase dates:

<div markdown="1" style="overflow-x: auto; max-width: 100%;">

| Major | CURRENT | ACTIVE | MAINTENANCE | EOL |
| ----- | ------- | ------ | ----------- | --- |
| 4.x   |         |        | 2025-04-01 | 2026-10-01 or later |
| 5.x   | 2024-09-11 | 2025-03-31 | 2026-04-01 | 2027-04-01 |
| 6.x   | TBD after 2025-10-01 | | | |

</div>
As you can see, this means that v5.1.0 being tagged `latest` indicates that we moved from `CURRENT` to `ACTIVE` which
starts the clock on EOL for v4 by moving it to `MAINTENANCE`. We recognize that v4 is a special case having been the
only major version for most of the history of Node.js itself. Because of this, we want to remain flexible and also
provide a bit longer support. We want to do what is best for the ecosystem, so consider these goals not commitments.

---

## Finally, what changed in v5.1.0

This release primarily focused on tech debt from supporting so many old Node.js versions and other things that stagnated but were not landed before v5.0.0 went out.

### Express 5.1.0 Main Changes

> * Transitioned all remaining dependencies to use `^` ranges instead of locked versions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add support for `Uint8Array` in `res.send()`
* Transitioned all remaining dependencies to use `^` ranges instead of locked versions
```

| 5.x   | 2024-09-11 | 2025-03-31 | 2026-04-01 | 2027-04-01 |
| 6.x   | TBD after 2025-10-01 | | | |

</div>
As you can see, this means that v5.1.0 being tagged `latest` indicates that we moved from `CURRENT` to `ACTIVE` which
starts the clock on EOL for v4 by moving it to `MAINTENANCE`. We recognize that v4 is a special case having been the
only major version for most of the history of Node.js itself. Because of this, we want to remain flexible and also
provide a bit longer support. We want to do what is best for the ecosystem, so consider these goals not commitments.

---

## Finally, what changed in v5.1.0

This release primarily focused on tech debt from supporting so many old Node.js versions and other things that stagnated but were not landed before v5.0.0 went out.

### Express 5.1.0 Main Changes

* Add support for `Uint8Array` in `res.send()`
* Transitioned all remaining dependencies to use `^` ranges instead of locked versions
* Add package.json funding field to highlight our OpenCollective 
* Added support for ETag option in `res.sendFile()`
* Added support for adding multiple links with the same rel with `res.links()`
* Performance: Use loop for acceptParams

> [Changelog v5.1.0](https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0)

Reviewer 2: I think it's better this way

```suggestion
[Changelog v5.1.0](https://github.com/expressjs/express/releases/tag/5.1.0)
```

Author: This was just copied from the auto-generated stuff, I agree it is better to link to the release.

---

> title: "v5.1.0 Release takes v5 to latest"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Express@5.1.0: Now the Default on npm with LTS Timeline"
```
This is just an idea, I think that we are doing 2 annoncements to the public (actually 3): New version (semver minor),  `latest` tag on v5 and finally the LTS big plan :smile:

tags: news, release 
author: Express Technical Committee

> description: Express goes latest with the 5.1.0 release and announces an LTS schedule for v4 and v5 release lines.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: Express 5.1.0 is now the default on npm, and we're introducing an official LTS schedule for the v4 and v5 release lines.
```

Just to improve the SEO a bit

---

Express v5.0.0 was released on September 9th last year, but we didn't make it the `latest` release on npm. Many asked us
why and when it would be, and frankly we were not ready at the time to take that jump. If you have not followed the news
from the project this past year, we have been [hard at work reviving the project](https://expressjs.com/2025/01/09/rewind-2024-triumphs-and-2025-vision.html)
and when we pushed the initial v5 release there were many loose ends still hanging. So first lets quickly go over some
of those loose ends.

### Documentation updates

We had not updated the docs, provided migration guides, or even fully reviewed some of the stagnated v4/5 docs in a long
time. Since then we have had tons of great contributors help get things into better shape. As with any volunteer based
Open Source project, we love contributions to help us improve so as you upgrade please continue to open PRs to fix
anything we missed.

You can find our [v5 docs](https://expressjs.com/en/5x/api.html) and our [migration guide](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5.html) on the website.

> Big thanks to <TODO: should we pull a list of contributors to thank here?>

Author: I wasn't sure there was an easy way to pull this list. Maybe we could make GH generate release notes based on a commit around that old date?

Reviewer 2: An example as shown by Astro.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2ed50e6a-7367-4703-abe6-f8827b943e54)

Reviewer 3: I love this idea! here is the list https://github.com/expressjs/expressjs.com/pull/1849/files#r2019980179

> Big thanks to <TODO: should we pull a list of contributors to thank here?>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Huge thanks to everyone who’s helped update docs, guides, and codebases across the ecosystem. Your contributions made this release possible. 🙏
```

Plan B in case that we can't retrieve the data on time and this becomes a blocker. That said I will love to include a human readable list with links to the profiles as suggested by @bjohansebas

> Big thanks to <TODO: should we pull a list of contributors to thank here?>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Big thanks to [@wesleytodd](https://github.com/wesleytodd), [@blakeembrey](https://github.com/blakeembrey), [@bjohansebas](https://github.com/bjohansebas), [@UlisesGascon](https://github.com/UlisesGascon), [@Phillip9587](https://github.com/Phillip9587), [@carpasse](https://github.com/carpasse), [@jonchurch](https://github.com/jonchurch), [@ctcpip](https://github.com/ctcpip), [@inigomarquinez](https://github.com/inigomarquinez), [@carlosstenzel](https://github.com/carlosstenzel), [@crandmck](https://github.com/crandmck), [@chrisdel101](https://github.com/chrisdel101), [@dpopp07](https://github.com/dpopp07), [@Ayoub-Mabrouk](https://github.com/Ayoub-Mabrouk), [@jonkoops](https://github.com/jonkoops), [@IamLizu](https://github.com/IamLizu), [@marco-ippolito](https://github.com/marco-ippolito), [@ipreencekmr](https://github.com/ipreencekmr), [@ShubhamOulkar](https://github.com/ShubhamOulkar), [@raksbisht](https://github.com/raksbisht), [@jeffreybaird](https://github.com/jeffreybaird), [@dougwilson](https://github.com/dougwilson), [@mertcanaltin](https://github.com/mertcanaltin), [@GeorgeShvab](https://github.com/GeorgeShvab), [@RobinTail](https://github.com/RobinTail), [@EvanHahn](https://github.com/EvanHahn), [@rhodgkins](https://github.com/rhodgkins), [@cengizcmataraci](https://github.com/cengizcmataraci), [@Shantanugupta43](https://github.com/Shantanugupta43), [@italojs](https://github.com/italojs), [@ljharb](https://github.com/ljharb), [@MaoShizhong](https://github.com/MaoShizhong), [@aroyan](https://github.com/aroyan), [@Binilkks](https://github.com/Binilkks), [@danielgindi](https://github.com/danielgindi), [@papandreou](https://github.com/papandreou), [@jsoref](https://github.com/jsoref), [@bigbigDreamer](https://github.com/bigbigDreamer), [@broofa](https://github.com/broofa), [@CommanderRoot](https://github.com/CommanderRoot), [@andvea](https://github.com/andvea), [@juanarbol](https://github.com/juanarbol), [@agungjati](https://github.com/agungjati), [@alexandercerutti](https://github.com/alexandercerutti), [@pr4j3sh](https://github.com/pr4j3sh), [@hamirmahal](https://github.com/hamirmahal), [@slagiewka](https://github.com/slagiewka), [@Abdel-Monaam-Aouini](https://github.com/Abdel-Monaam-Aouini), [@sazk07](https://github.com/sazk07), [@bhavya3024](https://github.com/bhavya3024), [@joshbuker](https://github.com/joshbuker), [@almic](https://github.com/almic), [@FDrag0n](https://github.com/FDrag0n), [@Dmitry-Kondar](https://github.com/Dmitry-Kondar), [@attrid](https://github.com/attrid), [@kristof-low](https://github.com/kristof-low), [@gireeshpunathil](https://github.com/gireeshpunathil), [@UzairJ99](https://github.com/UzairJ99), [@choi2021](https://github.com/choi2021), [@hayden36](https://github.com/hayden36), [@joharkhan99](https://github.com/joharkhan99), [@peterh-capella](https://github.com/peterh-capella), [@johnburnett](https://github.com/johnburnett), [@nicolasgandrade](https://github.com/nicolasgandrade), [@axhuwastaken](https://github.com/axhuwastaken), [@abhijeetpandit7](https://github.com/abhijeetpandit7), [@peterdanwan](https://github.com/peterdanwan), [@rehmansheikh222](https://github.com/rehmansheikh222), [@corydalis10](https://github.com/corydalis10), [@mgsantos177](https://github.com/mgsantos177), [@wilyJ80](https://github.com/wilyJ80), [@LuiGeeDev](https://github.com/LuiGeeDev), [@juliogarciape](https://github.com/juliogarciape), [@aelmardhi](https://github.com/aelmardhi), [@Ahmed1monm](https://github.com/Ahmed1monm), [@erensarac](https://github.com/erensarac), [@tomasz13nocon](https://github.com/tomasz13nocon), [@tianbuyung](https://github.com/tianbuyung), [@GreyTearsDev](https://github.com/GreyTearsDev), [@aastha-cse](https://github.com/aastha-cse), [@krzysdz](https://github.com/krzysdz), [@Miguelrom](https://github.com/Miguelrom), [@bnoordhuis](https://github.com/bnoordhuis), [@MehfoozurRehman](https://github.com/MehfoozurRehman), [@EasonLin0716](https://github.com/EasonLin0716), [@grjan7](https://github.com/grjan7), [@mishrasur7](https://github.com/mishrasur7), [@gregfenton](https://github.com/gregfenton), [@zareefhasan](https://github.com/zareefhasan), [@Tejas150](https://github.com/Tejas150), [@jpricardo](https://github.com/jpricardo), [@nikeee](https://github.com/nikeee), [@dotnetCarpenter](https://github.com/dotnetCarpenter), [@engpetermwangi](https://github.com/engpetermwangi), [@msimerson](https://github.com/msimerson), [@fetsorn](https://github.com/fetsorn), [@manoharreddyporeddy](https://github.com/manoharreddyporeddy), [@lancatlin](https://github.com/lancatlin), [@mifi](https://github.com/mifi), [@meowingwhitey](https://github.com/meowingwhitey), [@sheplu](https://github.com/sheplu), [@krsriq](https://github.com/krsriq), [@ravibisht](https://github.com/ravibisht), [@wojtekmaj](https://github.com/wojtekmaj), [@aqeelat](https://github.com/aqeelat), [@melikhov-dev](https://github.com/melikhov-dev), [@alexstrat](https://github.com/alexstrat), [@isnifer](https://github.com/isnifer), [@TorstenDittmann](https://github.com/TorstenDittmann), [@Uzlopak](https://github.com/Uzlopak), [@gurgunday](https://github.com/gurgunday), [@kurtextrem](https://github.com/kurtextrem), [@hdtmccallie](https://github.com/hdtmccallie), [@proudparrot2](https://github.com/proudparrot2), [@bewinsnw](https://github.com/bewinsnw), [@jonboulle](https://github.com/jonboulle), [@alexander-akait](https://github.com/alexander-akait), [@alxndrsn](https://github.com/alxndrsn), [@DimitriPapadopoulos](https://github.com/DimitriPapadopoulos), [@greggman](https://github.com/greggman), [@jkbach](https://github.com/jkbach), [@julien-c](https://github.com/julien-c), [@risu729](https://github.com/risu729), [@JohnSimumatik](https://github.com/JohnSimumatik), [@dhouck](https://github.com/dhouck), [@pedro-php](https://github.com/pedro-php), [@aminerol](https://github.com/aminerol), [@robertsky](https://github.com/robertsky), [@ipetrouchtchak-fi](https://github.com/ipetrouchtchak-fi), [@tinhochu](https://github.com/tinhochu), [@Lord-Kamina](https://github.com/Lord-Kamina), [@joshkel](https://github.com/joshkel), [@raiandexter0607](https://github.com/raiandexter0607), [@NateEag](https://github.com/NateEag), [@rmhaiderali](https://github.com/rmhaiderali), [@ljeda](https://github.com/ljeda)
```

We can play around the criteria, but honestly this might work. Here is [the gist](https://gist.github.com/UlisesGascon/c2ad2338e34b139f036dc2337dfcf73c) I created to generate the list. Basically Commit Authors in Express, website and direct/transative dependencies that we own ([see](https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6412)) since 2024 (express revamp initiative!) sorted by amount of contributions.

Reviewer 2: I love it, though I’d say it should go at the end of the post.

Reviewer 2: I think we shouldn't include Dependabot in the list, haha.

Reviewer 2: also @github-actions[bot]

Reviewer 3: Updated! thanks @bjohansebas

### Migration Support

Due to the awesome work of [Sebastian](https://github.com/bjohansebas) and [Filip](https://github.com/kjugi) we have a
new [codemod package](https://github.com/expressjs/codemod) to help folks migrate from v4 to v5. You can find docs in

> the readme and on the migration guide. 

Author: I was thinking it might be nice to have more content here. @bjohansebas or @kjugi do either of you have input on what we should highlight here?

Reviewer 2: I think I have an idea to expand on this idea, I'll add it in the comment.

> the readme and on the migration guide. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We know that migrating between versions can be challenging, especially when it involves significant changes in a widely used framework like Express. That's why we have worked on a solution to simplify part of the process and reduce the impact on developers.  

Thanks to the incredible efforts of [Sebastian](https://github.com/bjohansebas) and [Filip](https://github.com/kjugi), we have developed a new [codemod package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@expressjs/codemod) specifically designed to facilitate the transition from Express v4 to v5, as well as future major versions. This package automates many of the necessary code changes, minimizing manual effort and making the upgrade as smooth and efficient as possible.  

However, we understand that not all changes can be automated. Some breaking changes, such as the [new Path Route Matching syntax](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5.html#path-syntax), require manual modifications by developers.  

For more details on the migration process and how to use the codemod package, check the [repository’s README](https://github.com/expressjs/codemod#readme) and the [migration guide](https://expressjs.com/en/guide/migrating-5.html).
```

### Ecosystem compatibility

> The Express ecosystem is one of it's strongest assets. It goes back to the early days of Node.js and is the backbone

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Express ecosystem is one of its strongest assets. It goes back to the early days of Node.js and is the backbone
```

that keeps express popular. When it goes [10 years without a major release](https://expressjs.com/2024/10/15/v5-release.html)

> you can bet there is everything from middleware to blog posts that will need updating. We wanted to make sure folks had

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
everything from middleware to documentation needed updates. We wanted to make sure folks had
```

some time to get all of that updated before we had everyone moving over. Particularly we care about our very large
beginner user base who may not know the blog post they are reading is not compatible with what they get from
`npm i express`.

> We know this will still be an issue no matter how we handle this transition, but thanks to work from ecosystem partners

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We recognize that some friction is inevitable during major upgrades, but thanks to work from ecosystem partners
```

like [Kamil](https://github.com/kamilmysliwiec) from NestJS [working to update `express` before we went `latest`](https://github.com/expressjs/express/issues/5944#issuecomment-2523074127)
we will hopefully be ahead of the curve. And as I said above, we always welcome help to make this transition easier for
those who follow after you, PRs are the best support you can give.

### Long Term Support

We had been discussing how to support v4 now that v5 was out, but we had not defined a clear guideline or expectation,
and we had (still don't have) end user docs on our plans here. While we still have progress to make here, we have a
[proposed LTS strategy ](https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/pull/352) which will be the basis for our forthcoming
docs. Input is very welcome on this so we can make sure it is clearly communicated and acceptable to the community.

> Additionally since then we have announced a partnership with HeroDevs to help companies who are less capable of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally since then [we have announced a partnership with HeroDevs](https://expressjs.com/2024/10/01/HeroDevs-partnership-announcement.html) to help companies who are less capable of
```

### CURRENT

- New majors will go through a short period of hardening to ensure stability, security, and ecosystem libraries/resources
  compatibility.
- We will strive to ensure no breaking changes are included, but reserve the right to make security or high priority
  fixes of breaking nature within this period.
- `CURRENT` lines will receive all types of active work including: bug fixes, security patches, new features, and
  deprecation notices.
- Users are recommended to use  `CURRENT` lines and to upgrade as quickly as their risk profile allows

### ACTIVE

- `ACTIVE` lines will receive all types of active work including: bug fixes, security patches, new features, and
  deprecation notices.
- For users, `ACTIVE` lines are considered the most stable and well supported version at any given time.

### MAINTENANCE

- `MAINTENANCE` lines will only receive security patches or high priority bug fixes.
- Users are highly encouraged to upgrade to a `CURRENT` or `ACTIVE` release.

### Proposed Schedule

For the existing release lines, we will set the following phase dates:

| Major | CURRENT | ACTIVE | MAINTENANCE | EOL |
| ----- | ------- | ------ | ----------- | --- |

> | 4.x   |         |        | 2025-04-01 | 2026-10-01 or later |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| 4.x   |         |        | 2025-04-01 | 2026-10-01 |
```

Just cross-posting: https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/pull/352#discussion_r2019981355

Author: I can update this once we resolve the conversation in the other thread, but: https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/pull/352#discussion_r2020173430

| 5.x   | 2024-09-11 | 2025-03-31 | 2026-04-01 | 2027-04-01 |
| 6.x   | TBD after 2025-10-01 | | | |

As you can see, this means that v5.1.0 being tagged `latest` indicates that we moved from `CURRENT` to `ACTIVE` which
starts the clock on EOL for v4 by moving it to `MAINTENANCE`. We recognize that v4 is a special case having been the
only major version for most of the history of Node.js itself. Because of this, we want to remain flexible and also
provide a bit longer support. We want to do what is best for the ecosystem, so consider these goals not commitments.

---

## Finally, what changed in v5.1.0

This release primarily focused on tech debt from supporting so many old Node.js versions and other things that stagnated
but were not landed before v5.0.0 went out.

* Transitioned all remaining dependencies to use `^` ranges instead of locked versions
* Add package.json funding field to highlight our OpenCollective 

> * Added support for ETag option in `res.sendFile()`

Reviewer 4: 😍

* Added support for adding multiple links with the same rel with `res.links()`
* Performance: Use loop for acceptParams
* New Contributors: 
  * @bhavya3024 made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6071
  * @jonkoops made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6196

>   * @Abdel-Monaam-Aouini made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6211

Reviewer: I think contributions must be more specific, instead of 'made their first contributions in'.

Reviewer 2: I would choose to remove the mentions of the first contribution, just showing the change they made is enough, in my opinion.

Author: I copied these straight from the generated changelog. I thought it is nice to recognize new contributors. I am open to removing it, but the work involved in going through the automated list and then moving their name next to item is not something I think we need to do all the time.

  * @slagiewka made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6236
  * @hamirmahal made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6256
  * @pr4j3sh made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6297
  * @Ayoub-Mabrouk made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6097
  * @dpopp07 made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6317
  * @agungjati made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/6122

>   * @andvea made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/express/pull/4885
> * `body-parser@^2.1.0` then `body-parser@^2.2.0`
>   * Remove legacy node.js support checks for Brotli & `AsyncLocalStorage`
>   * Remove `unpipe` & `destroy`
>   * `type-is@^2.0.0`
>   * `iconv-lite@^0.6.3`
>   * New Contributors: 
>     * @Binilkks made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser/pull/581
>     * @aqeelat made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser/pull/588
>     * @wojtekmaj made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser/pull/591
> * `router@^2.1.0` then `router@^2.2.0`
>   * Restore `debug`. Now with the `router` scope instead of `express`.
>   * Remove legacy node.js support checks for `setImmediate`
>   * Deprecate non-native promise support
>   * Remove `after`, `safe-buffer`, `array-flatten`, `setprotoypeof`, `methods`, `utils-merge`
>   * `finalhandler@^2.1.0`
>   * `parseurl@^1.3.3`
>   * `is-promise@^4.0.0`
>   * New Contributors:
>     * @bjohansebas made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/152
>     * @dpopp07 made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/151
>     * @raksbisht made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/107
>     * @Phillip9587 made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/126
>     * @jonkoops made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/127
>     * @ctcpip made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/131
>     * @raiandexter0607 made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/135
>     * @UlisesGascon made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/router/pull/139
> * `finalhandler@2.1.0`
>     * Remove legacy node.js support checks for `headersSent`, `setImmediate`, & http2 support
>     * Remove `unpipe`
>     * `encodeurl@^2.0.0`
>     * New Contributors:
>       * @Phillip9587 made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/finalhandler/pull/67
>       * @bjohansebas made their first contribution in https://github.com/pillarjs/finalhandler/pull/83
> * `serve-static@^2.2.0`
>   * `send@^1.2.0`
>   * New Contributors: 
>     * @Ayoub-Mabrouk made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static/pull/182
>     * @bjohansebas made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static/pull/186
>     * @dpopp07 made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static/pull/194
>     * @ljeda made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static/pull/190
>     * @Phillip9587 made their first contribution in https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static/pull/191
> * `qs@^6.14.0`
>   * Added throwOnLimitExceeded option https://github.com/ljharb/qs/pull/517 & https://github.com/ljharb/qs/commit/b189ed49c8dfe5b41afe6cecabdaa562de56764b
> * `type-is@^2.0.1`
>   * New Contributors
>     * @Ayoub-Mabrouk made their first contribution in https://github.com/jshttp/type-is/pull/61
>     * @CommanderRoot made their first contribution in https://github.com/jshttp/type-is/pull/50
>     * @UlisesGascon made their first contribution in https://github.com/jshttp/type-is/pull/64
> * `debug@^4.4.0`
> * Removed dependencies:
>   * `setprototypeof`
>   * `safe-buffer`
>   * `methods`
>   * `utils-merge`
>   * `depd`
> 
> **Full Changelog**: https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0
> 
> ---

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This release primarily focused on tech debt from supporting so many old Node.js versions and other things that stagnated but were not landed before v5.0.0 went out.

### Express 5.1.0 Main Changes

* Transitioned all remaining dependencies to use `^` ranges instead of locked versions
* Add package.json funding field to highlight our OpenCollective 
* Added support for ETag option in `res.sendFile()`
* Added support for adding multiple links with the same rel with `res.links()`
* Performance: Use loop for acceptParams

**Full Changelog**: [https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0](https://github.com/expressjs/express/compare/5.0.1...v5.1.0)

### Dependencies updated

We also invested time to prepare several releases in the packages that Express depend on. Most of this packages are used by other libraries and framework as individual libraries.

* [body-parser@2.2.0](https://github.com/expressjs/body-parser/releases/tag/v2.2.0)
  * Remove legacy node.js support checks for Brotli & `AsyncLocalStorage`
  * Remove `unpipe` & `destroy`
* [router@2.2.0](https://github.com/pillarjs/router/releases/tag/v2.2.0)
  * Restore `debug`. Now with the `router` scope instead of `express`.
  * Remove legacy node.js support checks for `setImmediate`
  * Deprecate non-native promise support
  * Remove `after`, `safe-buffer`, `array-flatten`, `setprotoypeof`, `methods`, `utils-merge`
* [finalhandler@2.1.0](https://github.com/pillarjs/finalhandler/releases/tag/v2.1.0)
    * Remove legacy node.js support checks for `headersSent`, `setImmediate`, & http2 support
    * Remove `unpipe`
* [serve-static@2.2.0](https://github.com/expressjs/serve-static/releases/tag/v2.2.0)

---
```
This is just a proposal to simplify the dump of info. Currently most of this can be easily review from the changelogs. Ideally we should only include the _most relevant_ stuff. 

New contributors will be listed previously in the "thanks" section.

Reviewer 2: yep, agree

Reviewer 2: Support for sending responses as Uint8Array is also missing

Author: > Support for sending responses as Uint8Array is also missing

Hm, did I accidentally remove that one? Or was it not in the history?

---

This suggestion diff is super hard to read in the comment form, but I will just accept it since I agreed the big list is worse.

## Thanks and What's Next

Thanks so much to everyone involved in Express over the past year, the work all our contributors have put in is
incredible, and we couldn't do it without them. If you are not able to become a contributor yourself, please consider
asking your companies to support the project financially on [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/express).

Next up our focus is shifting to Performance. We will be kicking off [Performance Working Group](https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/pull/306)
to focus on measuring, tracking, and debugging framework performance issues. We hope the next minor releases will

> benefit from this and fix longstanding performance bottlenecks. Additionally we will be starting to ramp up plans for v6

Author: Do we want to mention any other new work here? I didn't intend to only mention the one, but I wanted to farm for input from folks on this so I didn't commit us to things that are not being focused on.

Reviewer 2: Providing official support for TypeScript types in future versions major, and support for HTTP/2?

Author: I won't commit directly to the official support for types, but I had on my todo list to help setup a group to discuss. I will add that.

I don't think anything is staged for http2, and honestly I am pretty opposed to anything that doesn't start with node.js. I would rather keep that one off unless you had a specific plan and goal documented in an issue I can read.

Author: I added the TS thing, and also highlighted the design work for the website.

> Next up our focus is shifting to Performance. We will be kicking off [Performance Working Group](https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/pull/306)
> to focus on measuring, tracking, and debugging framework performance issues. We hope the next minor releases will
> benefit from this and fix longstanding performance bottlenecks. Additionally we will be starting to ramp up plans for v6
> later this year, so look out for updates! See you in the issues!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As we look ahead, we’re excited to keep building momentum. If you haven’t read it yet, our [Rewind 2024 + 2025 Vision blog post](https://expressjs.com/2025/01/09/rewind-2024-triumphs-and-2025-vision.html) lays out where we’ve been and where we're headed. This includes performances scoped packages, better automation, security hardening, and more.

One major initiative is our new [Performance Working Group](https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/pull/306), focused on identifying and fixing long-standing bottlenecks in Express. We're grateful to be kicking this off with support from the [Sovereign Tech Fund (STF)](https://openjsf.org/sovereign-tech-fund/), who are helping us invest in long-term sustainability and performance of core infrastructure.

And yes, v6 discussions are already starting to heat up. Keep an eye out for updates, and as always, see you in the issues!
```

We made a blog post recently that we can mention, also some promo to the STF :)
